### A philosophical breakdown of simulation theory

The simulation theory says that if there ever will be a man-constructed simulation of the universe, then the statistical chance of our own universe being part of a simulation goes up to infinity. Now the rapid acceleration of technology is used as evidence that this will one day happen, but the reality is that the universe that we live in might have a finite amount of compute and that finite amount might not be enough to simulate anything near to a universe as big and complex as ours. Even thinking that humans can one day harness the compute of a universe-worth of resources in order to simulate as much as we conceivably can under that constrained quantity changes the statistical odds that someone like Nick Bostrom, a simulation theory philosophizer, posits in the philosophy. That is because each constituent universe of each spawning universe is in all likelihood much smaller and less complex than its spawning universe, meaning that the aforementioned probability decays exponentially with each level in the turtles-all-the-way-down formalism right up until we hit the last turtle where no life can emerge, let alone a simulation of a yet smaller universe. So this is the problem of the simulation hypothesis. It doesn’t account for compute limitations in a potentially finite universe, and in fact, any simulation humans ever create will be finite, in all likelihood. That is, its citizens won’t have access to more resources than that universe’s Gods (us) and therefore their simulations won’t be as advanced as ours and so on with each diminishingly impressive layer, resulting in exponentially decreasing probabilities of living in a lower-level-turtle universe. The highest probability by plurality is that of living in the highest-level universe, not in a middle one. That’s not to say however that the simulation hypothesis is a total fallacy. The thought experiment gives us an analogy for one other process that I consider more profound than humanity’s technological acceleration: biological evolution. If, hypothetically, a biological creature ever exists that is able to imagine universes upon universes, and imagine people among one another, and oceans and cities and art and mountains and civilization and the animal kingdom and robots and river basins and the Alps and the Himalayas, what are the odds that we ourselves are not living in such an imagination?

---

$$(\text{Probability of living in a universe } \mathrm{U}) = \frac{(\text{Size and complexity of that universe } \mathrm{U})}{(\text{Total size and complexity of all universes } [1,N])}.$$

for some presumed $(\text{Number of universes } N) \geq 1$. 

More formally:

$\mathbf{P}(\mathrm{U}) = \frac{C(\mathrm{U})}{\sum\limits_{\mathrm{W}=1}^{N} C(\mathrm{W})}$,

where the size and complexity of a lower-level universe $C(\mathrm{U})$ is upper bounded by that of its higher-level universe $C(\mathrm{U} + 1)$, exclusive:

$C(\mathrm{U}=k+1) > C(\mathrm{U}=k), \forall k < N \in \mathbb{N}$. 

Therefore the plurality goes to the highest-level universe $\mathrm{U}$ $=$ $N$:

$$\mathbf{P}(\mathrm{U}=N) > \mathbf{P} (\mathrm{U}=k), \forall k < N \in \mathbb{N}.$$

> The size of a universe, accounted for by $C(\mathrm{U})$, also depends on the time-dimension. Take a 4D spacetime for example. If the 4th dimension’s frame rate is much slower (that is, time partials/quanta increment much slower in the simulated universe compared to the spawning universe), then the simulated universe’s 4D size is much smaller, and, since the simulated universe begins younger, $C(\cdot)$ can never catch up (due to the upper bound of compute constraints), unless inviting the possibility of a simulated universe that is more efficient than the spawning universe, by means of efficient approximation, in which case the approximations would lose precision capacity with each simulated layer, and then, assuming a more precise definition of $C(\mathrm{U})$ as the "probability of our observed universe existing in $\mathrm{U}$," we can say for sure that $C(\mathrm{U})$ is monotonically increasing, that is, $C(\mathrm{U}+1) \geq C(\mathrm{U})$.
>
> Regarding the highest-level universe $\mathbf{P}(\mathrm{U}=N)$, a plurality in likelihood is guaranteed, assuming $C(\mathrm{U}+1) > C(\mathrm{U})$. Majority would depend on the probabilities assigned to each substituent universe, unknowable what even a reasonable sampling range for would be; therefore, the probability of a majority as well as a plurality depends on one's guess of $C(\mathrm{U})$, and $L(\mathrm{U})$ the likelihood of each $\mathrm{U}=k$ spawning or evolving a substituent universe, and determining $N$ from that based on one's choice of minimum threshold likelihoods $\epsilon_1, \epsilon_2$ such that $\epsilon_1 < C(\mathrm{U}=\mathrm{1})$ and $L(\mathrm{U}=\mathrm{1}) < \epsilon_2 < L(\mathrm{U}=\mathrm{2})$. Keeping the standard for $C(\cdot)$ high, we can reasonably speculate a low $N$, or $N$ $=$ $1$.
>
> Regarding imagination, or rather the brain, and delving deeper into the ambiguity of the definition of "universe," perhaps each of us is a "universe" $\mathrm{U}=k$; and a bigger brain, composed of qualia and memory, is $\mathrm{U} \geq k$, much like for our own living neurons that compose ours. This introduces one more facet of the conversation: what makes a substituent universe substituent? Is it the fact that it's simulated in a computer or is any region of resources within the universe a substituent universe? Is it the presence of qualia and memory and physical-like dynamics? And what if every part of the universe, to some degree, possesses these properties?
