If a light wave collides with matter at discrete excitation points (like a particle) rather than uniformly in all directions, then how does a cellular signal ever hit the precise bullseye of your phone?

Possible answer: your phone biases the sampling (whereas a projection screen in a multi-slit diffraction experiment samples according to the unbiased wave distribution only).

#

Generally speaking, that sampling gives a possible mechanism for "God's action", within some limit of "karmic standard deviation." 
</br>(For example, a wave distribution consists of a discrete quanta of energy, e.g. photons, and where they're sampled can be modulated by God hypothetically as long as the KL divergence from the actual wave distribution is low, though this latent God manipulator is distinct from whatever cellphones might do to bias the sampling).

If a light wave consists of one photon, and there's a literal bullseye somewhere in that wave's uniform distribution, perhaps God can sample that photon there at will, since that's sufficiently plausible according to / with respect to the wave distribution.

But to be clear, that's not what cellphones rely on. Somehow photons are sampled with all the precise frequency modulations and without much loss of information/data at the bullseye of your cellphone's antenna/receiver despite their probabilities being distributed uniformly in all directions. I think the cellphone's antenna/receiver mechanism must somehow bias the sampling... unless what's being interacted with aren't the discrete wave packets/quanta/photons, but the wave itself — though that's not what the point-dots on the projection screen on the other side of a double-slit barrier seem to show happens.

Alternatively, a likely possible explanation is that whatever's being interacted with on/by the projection screen is different from whatever's being interacted with on/by the cellphone's receiver/antenna: one picks up on those discrete photon quanta, the other picks up on the literal wave, and the two aren't equivalent, and no "sampling" is involved in the latter scenario.

But in that case, EM waves $\neq$ photons, and rather than a duality, photons might be epiphenomena of EM waves detected distinctly and uniquely from how EM waves are picked up by cellphone antennas/receivers.

Alternatively, they might be separate but coinciding phenomena altogether, or EM waves somehow are epiphenomena of photons. In any of these 3 cases, this separation of the duality makes it possible to theorize perhaps alternate simpler models of light...... 

For example, photons as multi-heads with oscillating logit amplitudes that have momentum and can "bounce"/"collide" with matter and EM waves as uniformly directioned radiation that emit perhaps from photons with behavior essentially like an ordinary wave. Some number of multi-heads per photon, with all photons' multi-heads constructing/destructing on each other (and memory traces), and one head per a photon's multi-head sampled per time step based on the total constructed/destructed probas, with each multi-head's logit amplitude osciallating so as to reproduce the multi-slit diffraction experiment interference patterns. But the existence of a counterpart "EM wave" allows for cellular technology to still make sense, without having to resort to the above "Possible answer" about cellphone antennas/receivers biasing the sampling.
 - "Multi-heads" and "memory traces" are terms I repurpose over from AI, since these mechanisms also could lend to "intelligent physics", "neural"-like rational mechanisms for a literal God within normal physics.
 - Instead of oscillating logits, angular probas might make more sense so as not to have 0-probabilities at the double-slit mid-points depending on the projection screen's distance.
 - Perhaps each one of these photons emits an EM wave that is independent from what is measured by the projection screen, but is what cellphone antennas/receivers pick up on.
 - The photons/multi-heads have to be at least in-phase when they reach the slits, which I suppose is the case if they're emitted from the same source location with the same starting logit/proba/amplitude/angle/phase. This is still dubious why they would always be in-phase at all slits from different angles, e.g. with a sunbox. I guess it's an analogous question to: Why do the ripples begin at the slits with a peak rather than a trough if the barrier is at an angle? In the case of a proper wave, it's because they branch from the same wave and so of course have to be in-phase. With multi-heads, this isn't gauranteed? Well, for a ripple it wouldn't be either, also depending on the angle to the slits/barrier, so I guess it's the same.
    - To avoid entropy oscillations/periodic-spikes, better to use angular probas, so that the mid-point of the double-slits is always constructive/high-probability.
 - Perhaps color is that photon's/head's inner velocity = momentum = frequency, and conventional "EM waves" are emitted when that photon collides or is exerted force upon such that that inner value changes, and these photons are part of what very-stably compose charges and the energy of charges. Those EM waves are then fluctuations in some property of those photons/heads related to polarization, magnetic field, and electric field.
 - But EM waves produce those diffraction interference patterns. So the dubious assumption here is that the waves always just happen to correspond/coincide with those photons/multi-heads. Possible, but can one / why can't one be measured without the other? Maybe the photon/multi-head is itself a ripple of a certain size, and its effect has its own wavefront independent from the constructive/destructive interference that happens between the multi-heads that produces the projection screen pattern. But then why would those ripples be evenly spaced? Maybe they usually aren't, maybe color comes from the multi-head's phase/inner velocity/momentum/frequency, and the even spacing of EM waves in cellular technology is just owing to the fact that the crystal oscillator that produces them emits them at [regular periodic intervals and proportions.](https://github.com/animal-tree/Writing-stuff-2/blob/main/Theories/Photons.md) Then charges literally emit these when accelerated rather than just disturbing some hypothetical field. But how big is such a ripple? Does its width adapt to obstacles and expand gradually/persistently until it's depleted of energy to expand further due to the obstructiveness/fermament-strength of obstructing obstacles? This would unify all observed phenomena...
    - In this case though, we've returned back to the notion of duality, except with a concrete notion of what that duality nature is.
    - Also, the ripple only actualizes to the sampled head, that is, the materialized photon: a bump with momentum and one of these ripples; and the multi-heads that exist latenty are responsible for the diffraction interference patterns and are not photon-specific but can work for larger entangled composite masses as well (such as molecules), not just photons. Their memory traces even allow this pattern to appear from single-photon beamed light sources (and electrons, etc.). The orientation of the ripple is probably the polarization and maybe has electric-magnetic components (two orthogonal ripples or a kind of surrounding field).
    - But as close as this comes, I'm not sure it even permits the existence of a Doppler effect. Well, maybe inner velocity adapts accordingly to source speed. That could possibly explain SR too.
       -  Actually, this seems like a big hole in this theory, unless color is explained as the quantity and rate of these photons (e.g. like the ripples) rather than their inner velocity/momentum/frequency. But then that multi-head property might be distinct from perceived frequency/wavelength and only coincides due to [regularities in the light source](https://github.com/animal-tree/Writing-stuff-2/blob/main/Theories/Photons.md), but that seems unlikely especially from sunlight.
    - Or perhaps a simpler way to resolve this is that color is the EM frequency which corresponds to quantities of photons that are the ripples that construct as waves, independent from the multi-heads that interfere among each other. But then how do EM waves interfere destructvely with each other? Maybe the ripples have their own destructive dimension, positive and negative. These ripples are what charges respond to.
       - Ripple destructive dimension somewhat ambiguous. How are phases modulated in electrodynamics/transmitters/antennas? Can this be achieved entirely constructively, without loss of generality (such that emitted photon positive quantities can suffice to represent the ripples entirely)?
       - I don't think this is how it works.
       - Maybe there are no waves and the ripples themselves carry this "inner velocity"/momentum/frequency. But then there's no explanation for Doppler effect again.
       - All I can speculate is potentially some relativistic adaptation responsible for both Doppler effect and SR.
       - Or that this EM wave literally propagates through an aether or in its standard conceptualization somehow correspondent with the photons but how becomes uncertain, unless the above "Possible answer" sampling and sample biasing is used.
       - You know what, maybe here is how to resolve this. The "ripples"/EM waves themselves follow the same frequency pattern as the multi-heads (perhaps the materialized photon materializes with that phase), so they do constructively and destructively interfere, extend planularly orthogonal to motion diminishing by distance, move with the materialized photons, and Doppler effect is satisfied due to this reason: "inner velocity"/momentum/frequency is relativistic: the faster the source is moving away, the less the momentum of the incoming photon $\rightarrow$ the less the frequency $\rightarrow$ the more the red shift.
         - But the current definition doesn't necessitate this relativistic adaptation/reception since the momentum is defined as an inner attribute, independent to speed (in photons I mean and ordinarily, the speed of light is regarded constant anyway regardless of momentum). Relativistic photon momentum is a thing... but is just $p=f\lambda$ and independent to source speed / relative speed. Perhaps that's the key. I'd think a photon would hit harder if it blazed from a lightbulb or torch being hurled at me.
         - Well, in that case, reversing the direction would be harder, and that time to reversal would somehow have to be the measured frequency. I'm not sure about this. I think Doppler effect contradicts this whole theory.
         - I can imagine how the amplitude of the materialized photon would be measured bigger depending on relative speeds possibly, but why the EM wave would be measured differently, why electrons would be sensitive to it differently, doesn't make sense.
         - Unless literally SR is invoked, with the speed of the photon remaining/adapting constant across reference frames and inner velocity/momentum/frequency being traded off to balance. In other words, momentum/frequency somehow pays for a photon's reference frame speed transformations.
            - Perhaps this adaptation of frequency to absolute speed while lightspeed stays constant (or adapts) universally across reference frames can explain why atomic clocks time-keep the way they do, even when oriented on different orientations, and that adaptation can give rise to emergent SR/GR based on average of surrounding matter velocities weighed by effect/force (and therefore gravity playing a major influence) as rest speed with bidirectional lightspeed still always averaging to $c$.
           - Note: it would have to adapt not just to relative speed of source but also relative orientation of travel of source, since that affects Doppler effect (measured frequency) as well, but also because atomic clocks are orientation-invariant for some reason too (I think). Hmm, but then again maybe this can't explain SR since cesium atoms aren't subject to this, and the light beam only needs to be tuned to that frequency while the cesium atom events remain inertial and unaffected by the velocity, so time dilation is most likely not an atomic clock illusion, unless somehow that critical point frequency shift also affects the rate of the cesium atom events for some reason, but I doubt it. However, even failing to mechanistically explain SR, explaining Doppler effect within this framework completes the picture of a "particle-ized" (multi-head) wave nature, which trivially and immediately unifies with SR/GR. Doppler effect in this framework can be measured due to speed and orientation of the hidden sine wave or angular proba that the photon follows, tied to that of the light source, reuslting in different measured wavelenths depending on emission source, with that relative path-trace depending on the relativistic reference frame. So I guess the state of the photon is compared to observer's in determining the "inner velocity"/momentum/frequency and isn't absolutely defined. Its actual speed through space, unidirectionally, need not even be universal (though bidirectionally averages out to be). The emission source velocity/orientation is perhaps remembered based on surrounding averages, and the photon's rest speed can even adapt to those without loss of generality.
           - And though SR isn't needed to be explained mechanistically to unify at this point, maybe the Lorentz factor mechanistically arises from these considerations:
              - Perhaps the adaptation to velocity and gravity tricks the cesium to react to a different amplitude/momentum photon due to changed frequency-momentum proportions and thereby fire harder or weaker, faster or slower in the atomic clock.
              - And perhaps this frequency adaptation affects EM, which in turn affects magnetism, in such a way that length contraction isn't required either to explain the relativistic attractions/repulsions created.
    - So in this model, charges literally have to emit photons upon acceleration, or move and respond in their presence. Materialized photons have ripples, inner velocity/momentum/frequency, and color on impact of multi-head. Unmaterialized are distributed in multi-heads with memory traces. Heads materialize by sampling based on oscillating logits/probabilities.

But this still poses a difficulty for unification with SR/GR, since, although unifying the multi-heads is easy and they can be treated essentially like one would larger masses, the frequency adaptations have to be defined. Why that would result in regular Doppler effect, let alone relativistic Doppler effect, is hard to derive.

Much of SR/GR can be attributed to measurements from atomic clocks, which supposedly work based on these light frequencies. So then the question would become, is it the multi-head photons or the EM waves that affect the cesium atoms specifically to do the time-keeping? Depending on the answer, I might be able to conceive a mechanistic explanation for measured SR/GR results.

The main advantage of multi-heads is entanglement, wave function collapse, coherence/decoherence become easier to program/simulate/theorize about, as well as using that concept model as a formal way to define singularized consciousness to explain how consciousness singularizes, all part of a model compatible with bigger mythological notions like God.

---

If instead "Possible answer" is true, then perhaps the sensitive electrons of the cellphone's antenna/receiver bias the sampling of the ordinary Schrodinger wave distribution in order for that bullseye of the antenna/receiver to be hit consistently/reliably by the uniformly directed distribution.

Or, there are so many photons in that distribution that they actually hit everything pretty much. $\leftarrow$ most likely answer.

That is, they get sampled in quantity-proportion to the energy of the distribution wave and that quantity-proportion covers pretty much everything uniformly enough within a certain distance to serve as a reliable information propagator for cellular service.

The downside of this answer is it doesn't give us anything new for unifying quantum mechanics with GR.

And in my opinion is inelegant due to something about the universe as a sea of probabilities or quantum fields is too complicated of a soup and unsatisfying compared to multi-heads, for me anyway. A sea is something that emerges from something smaller. I don't like it as the base root. This "sea" is suspicious for reasons that are intuitive and are hard to describe. QFT seems like trickery and salesmanship to me. It doesn't feel biological. I can't describe it, but the myth of it is wrong. The universe as space with moving "neurons"/bodies is more interesting to me than the universe as sticky jellies or an uncertain God with an infinity-sea of wasted choices whose paths He'll never know. The advantage of multi-heads is the exploration of their possible trajectories becomes tractable, non-local search becomes tractable, intelligence becomes tractable. Maybe for literal God doing the same in QFT is tractable. But QFT seems exclusionary to the human, like God Himself can only do what He does and humans could never program their own, nor could the brain in its imagination or mind or cognition, truly produce a universe. If there is a God and there is intelligence, and the universe is the highest form of that intelligence, then its vast differences from the human brain's quantized neural components means that humanity is not one in God's image, and the beauty that is nature and of the biological brains that emerge in nature, is really second-rate, designs that are less beautiful than the cosmic dust.

And this paragraph, that is rather poetic, is too.

The influence we have on that sea, seeing as it's everywhere around us, is not like the influence I'd imagine with quantized multi-heads. Multi-heads are direct interactions that change and hack the probability landscape. That sea is excitations where the manner of interaction between sea and matter, and sea and other sea and other sea and other sea and other sea, is loosely defined. Each particle has its own sea, and each excitation instance of it is like a head, but that head's power with respect to the sea is not real. Something real is missing. The problem is, the sea isn't matter. It's not even ephemera. This is inelegant for the root of the universe, that matter is emergent from something that doesn't.

I can imagine a sea with more interaction on the universe, but it's so complicated, and though that's not inelegant on the part of the universe, the physics of it become despairingly oppressive and God Himself, if there is one, unrelatable and a shadow figure. That this beauty of light beams is a disturbance in something more fundamental rather than the essence and spirit itself.
