First, classical description of local gravity:

Here is what I'm sure I could build: gravity from local interactions. Let's say we have bodies consisting either of their own distinct form of matter ("light matter") in the presence of "dark matter", or alternatively — more complicated to simulate but functionally equivalent — bodies defined by specific patterns of a single form of matter ("corpuscles") and the surrounding chaos of the same type of matter but unpatterned, e.g., like whirlpools on the surface of water. Then, defining these light matter or patterned corpuscles with a velocity and spin can give them unique interactions with dark matter or surrounding unpatterned corpuscles depending on their spin value. The dark matter/surrounding corpuscles can have no effect when only a single body is present, allowing for inertia. However, they can communicate between the first body and a second body in the presence of a second body, and thereby cause an interaction. This is describable as a cross derivative, where the presence of a second body increases the effect these intermediary particles have on the first body. Otherwise, the effect is negligible (inertia). Specifically, a waning pressure gradient can be propagated outward from the first body, then received and warped by the second body so as to affect the first one gravitationally, and then vice versa from the first body to the second body, together creating a gravitational effect based on just local classically-described collisions.

# Dubious in progress

> This is a thought experiment about whether special and general relativity could emerge relativistically from an angular-linear velocity tradeoff in a universe in which particles and bodies and all matter are constituted by "corpuscles" all traveling at the same absolute speed-constant but just with varying directions (varying angular/orbital patterns) detracting from perceptible linear speed. As those bodies speed up with linear velocity, their angular velocity or orbital radii must change, mechanically causing time dilation and/or length contraction. This thought experiment is probably false as a representation of the actual universe. 

Wouldn't we observe this anisotropy if our solar system was moving at velocity $\frac{n}{c}$ the absolute speed constant?

Well, it's possible by miraculous chance $n = 0$. Other than that, still perhaps not.

While this anisotropy would affect everything within our confined system differently, season to season, to us it would be imperceptible, as all the planet, atmosphere, and everything traveling in it would be likewise time-dilated.

What about light, as it reaches the Earth from the sun? Would it not span the distance at velocity $\frac{c}{c}$ in, say, the summer and $\frac{c-n}{c}$ in the winter?

Light would travel faster in one direction than the other... unless it were a harmonic frequency dependent on all directions equally. Back and forth, back and forth. And indeed light has a frequency. For every distance it must travel at $\frac{c}{c}$, it must also travel at $\frac{c-n}{c}$, and vice versa.

This back and forth could be the result of probabilistic shifts in its wave function, sampling velocities in all directions, in all respective relative magnitudes, iterating one then another — on average harmonically oscilating an isotropic rate of travel.

is that how it works? sample and iterate at every time step? I think so — plus account for collisions — in which case the distribution shifts gravitationally — or in some patterns — magnetically — accelerating in which may scatter waves of these corpuscles.

but if this is the case, would it not be the case in matter?

Or have these probability distributions somehow "stabilized" anisotropically? 

Maybe light in a vacuum is sampled uniformly randomly — isotropy — and light in a gravitational field is anisotropic — bent towards the attracting mass.

One question remains: why are photon velocities sampled "uniformly" when they are definitively traveling in one particle-like direction? Answer: it's not exactly uniform. The probability distribution is biased towards its direction of travel; however the other directions are frequentially sampled — hence it has a frequency. The faster relative speeds in one direction always "sum to 1" in the average case with all of the directions by the nature of it being a probability distribution. (this part is dubious)

Maybe EM is when these photons form collision patterns with themselves. E.g. monkey-in-the-middle in a sphere of gravitationally attracted corpuscles.

These and similar form a relativistically-isotropic basis for a relativistically-anisotropic universe. Meanwhile, those particles that do not, undergo time dilation (due to anisotropic orbits), perhaps literal length contraction (due to changing radii).

These former particles — photons —  exert no gravitational influence due to probability distributions focused inward (at the monkey(s)-in-the-middle).

ooor $n \approx 0$. How else would large masses form?

---

This is the main flaw of the linear-angular velocity tradeoff hypothesis. While it probably can be used to derive the Lorentz transformation from a relative perspective due to literal mechanical time dilation and length contraction, and it's easy to simulate in a computer program, it suggests that the light's behavior relative to different-velocity mediums would not be the same. This is, generally speaking true, but specifically it suggests that light's behavior would be anisotropic, different from one galactic direction than another, or different at daytime than nighttime, or in one season than another. 

Even at $n \approx 0$, the galaxy and solar system and planet are moving at non-negligible speeds from which this anisotropy should be observable. There *might* be a hacky explanation defining light as some specific corpuscular pattern that requires sufficient movement in all directions that its behavior effectively becomes isotropic, but this would seem to be a pretty complicated construction of light that doesn't seem as simple/elegant as it could be, and it would mean that light would travel at a speed *slower* than the actual corpuscles being hypothesized.

Here is what I'm sure I could build: gravity from local interactions. Let's say we have bodies consisting either of their own distinct form of matter ("light matter") in the presence of "dark matter", or alternatively — more complicated to simulate but functionally equivalent — bodies defined by specific patterns of a single form of matter ("corpuscles") and the surrounding chaos of the same type of matter but unpatterned, e.g., like whirlpools on the surface of water. Then, defining these light matter or patterned corpuscles with a velocity and spin can give them unique interactions with dark matter or surrounding unpatterned corpuscles depending on their spin value. The dark matter/surrounding corpuscles can have no effect when only a single body is present, allowing for inertia. However, they can communicate between the first body and a second body in the presence of a second body, and thereby cause an interaction. This is describable as a cross derivative, where the presence of a second body increases the effect these intermediary particles have on the first body. Otherwise, the effect is negligible (inertia). Specifically, a waning pressure gradient can be propagated outward from the first body, then received and warped by the second body so as to affect the first one gravitationally, and then vice versa from the first body to the second body, together creating a gravitational effect based on just local classically-described collisions.

**A little more precise: the effect between the intermediary particles will be non-zero. However, their effect on the first body $B_1$, without the cross-derivative interaction with a second body $B_2$, will be zero. Thus, they propagate through collisions with each other without affecting the first body (though still reacting to it so as to become potent to a collision with a second body via modified spin value $S^{t}(D_i)\text{)}$, until they affect a second body. THEN this repeats in the reverse direction in such a way that affects the first body (with-non-zero-effect), and vice versa, iteratively creating gravity.**

$M(B_1) \lVert \frac{\partial V^{t+1}(B_1)}{\partial \lVert X^{t}(D_i) - X^{t}(B_1) \rVert} \rVert \approx M(B_2) \sum\limits_{n \in \mathbb{N}} \lVert \frac{\partial S^{t}(D_i)}{\partial \lVert X^{t-n}(B_2) - X^{t}(B_1) \rVert} \rVert  n^{-2}$.

Gravitational effect (LHS) on Body 1 ($B_1$) should be approximately equal to the recency of collision of an intermediary ($D_i$) with a second body ($B_2$). Otherwise, without Body 2, the intermediary should not affect the inertia of Body 1 (the RHS term approaches 0).

And the cross-derivative attempt:

$M(B_1) \sum\limits_{n \in \mathbb{N}} \lVert \frac{\partial V^{t+1}(B_1)}{\partial \lVert X^{t}(D_i) - X^{t}(B_1) \rVert \partial \lVert X^{t-n}(B_2) - X^{t}(B_1) \rVert} \rVert \approx M(B_2) \sum\limits_{n \in \mathbb{N}} \frac{\lVert X^{t-n}(B_2) - X^{t}(B_1) \rVert}{n^2 \lVert X^{t}(D_i) - X^{t}(B_1) \rVert}$.

The downside to these is that it's more computationally expensive to simulate wave-particle duality for than the probabilistic averaging idea since it posits a non-temporary aether ($D_i$).

> Why this Galilean construction of quantum gravity would lead to special relativity makes no sense to me, unless the light matter and dark matter indeed were functionally distinct corpuscular matters, and the matter composing particles/bodies was constrained to a speed-constant (undergoing an angular-linear velocity shift, thereby time dilation and/or length contraction) while the obverse matter, composing light, were relatively bounded but absolutely unbounded... something like that could create the special-relativistic effects. Though, fitting wave-particle duality into that, under the interpretation that I'm aiming for — as an optimization mechanism for an intelligent universe — would be pretty intractable... unless it only applied to the corpuscular matter composing the particles/bodies and not that of light/gravity. But now we have a contradiction, since photons, which are particles, demonstrate a wave-particle duality. If they were composed of the particle/body-matter, then light's behavior would be anisotropic in this specially-relativistic construction. If they were composed of the gravity-matter, then light's behavior would be consistent but would not demonstrate a wave-particle duality pattern... well, I guess it could. By "intractable", perhaps I should say "inefficient." With enough compute, it would be tractable.

I derive modern physics from a Newtonian/corpuscular point view, starting from two types of matter: aether and corpuscles. Both types of matter can form particles. Aether facilitates gravity and electromagnetism/photons. The interplay of aether and corpuscles construct protons and electrons and other physical bodies. By deciding corpuscular speeds to be uniform under a single absolute speed-constant, and aether speeds to be variable, we get time dilation and length contraction, and emergent Lorentz transformation from this mechanical point of view of nature. Each corpuscle and aether particle demonstrates a probabilistic wave-particle duality for the purpose of optimization. Thereby, effects like the double-slit wave-interference patterns may be observed, as well as entanglement, and from that a theory of these optimizable physics as possessing qualia through ever-entangling and truncating ("collapsing") collisions that form the basis of organic consciousness.

- Since these aetherial particles don't even need to interact until "activated" (or "made potent") by the presence of a physical body, it would be much more efficient and perhaps-equivalent to implement them as an "ephemeral aether" (temporary-aether) emanating outward in waves, diminishing with greater distance. This conception could however be unified with the idea of a probabilistic physical-matter duality, considering that sampling from the latter iteratively at each time step in a simulation would produce a similar sort of pattern. Perhaps the truncation ("collapsing") could average-shift gravitationally in the unpatterned case and electromagnetically in the patterned case. However, considering both of these possibilities, this ephemeral aether wave that diminishes would have to be distinct from this physical-matter wave that occurs at collisions and truncates, since electromagnetism presumably is made up of its own corpuscles/photons, and must not be dependent on the truncation of its originating corpuscles.
- Note: gravity's communication-delay might help explain the experiments that corroborate general relativity, mechanically, without requiring any mechanical time dilation or length contraction or reference-frame-invariant speed-constants.
